# DESIGN-OPTIMIZATION-AND-STRUCTURAL-ANALYSIS-OF-AUTOMOTIVE-WHEEL
- The car wheel serves the purpose of providing a firm base to fit the tire. Its size and form needs to be adequate in order to accommodate the particular size tire required for the vehicle. This report presents a general approach for design modification of existing geometry of automotive wheel for avoiding the possibility of over design and under design. - The over design and under design is categorized based on the static structural parameters. While performing the analysis, the simulation is based certain assumptions and hence the results presented in this report are valid only for those particular assumption. If any assumption is ignored then its effect has to be considered in the simulation in terms of certain input.
An automotive wheel is under the design process. The preliminary model of the wheel is provided as a starting point for the analysis and design modification. The input model is over-designed. There is input from vehicle dynamics team in terms of the dead load carried by each wheel. There is an input from the tire manufacturer in terms of the required tire pressure for better performance on the road. Based on the provided inputs, we need to modify the design of the wheel so that it falls within the allowable design limits. The allowable design limit is determined by the factor of safety for wheel under applied loading conditions. Over design would cause excessive cost of the part and the under design would cause the failure. The project discuss about inputs, assumptions, design modifications and the respective results.
